---
title: 浙江大学软件学院周经森
---


[周经森(Kingsum Chow)](https://github.com/kingsum/kingsum.github.io)教授是SPAIL(System Performance Analytics and Intelligence Lab)的创建者和带头人。


> In March 2023, Kingsum joined the faculty of the School of Software Technology, Zhejiang University in Ningbo, Zhejiang, China. Back in 1996, he graduated with a PhD degree from the School of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Washington. Since then, he has worked for Intel in USA and Alibaba in China. He received the titles of chief scientist and senior principal engineer from the two companies he worked for. He has 33 years of experience in computer system performance optimization. He published 127 papers and 28 patents. He also delivered keynotes in major conferences including 4 appearances in JavaOne, the highest rated Java conference in the world. During the years he worked for Alibaba and Intel, he delivered results by collaborating with technologists from top hi-tech companies such as Amazon, AMD, Arm, Ampere, BEA (acquired by Oracle), Google, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, Siebel (acquired by Oracle), Sun (acquired by Oracle) and Tencent. He led project Apollo in the collaboration between Intel and Oracle in the 2015 launch of Oracle Cloud, announced by Oracle and Intel CEO’s in the Oracle OpenWorld Keynote. His technical expertise and work ethics are highly praised by his collaborators. He represented Alibaba in the election for JCP EC (Java Community Process Executive Committee), the highest-ranking Java standards committee in the world. He was the first person to take a Chinese company into the world’s Java authority. Alibaba is still the only company in China that has achieved this status. While at Alibaba, he led the development a performance analysis platform called System Performance Estimation, Evaluation and Decision (SPEED). He trained many system performance engineers throughout the years and many of them are taking senior positions in many companies.


### 团队介绍	

The team is comprised of researchers spanning the fields of software engineering and system performance, including research experience in the top institutes and extensive industry experience in both software and hardware technologies with international high-tech companies. The team is fluent in both English and Chinese communications.

Our team maintains close collaborations with multiple enterprises, research institutions, and overseas universities. With abundant research funding and a vibrant scientific atmosphere, our team provides numerous opportunities for students to participate in a wide array of research and engineering projects. This enables them to showcase their individual capabilities, pursue academic aspirations, and enhance their engineering expertise, fostering both academic growth and engineering proficiency.

SPAIL has solid projects spanning from the academia to the industry. SPAIL has healthy funding to continue the current projects in computer system performance optimization and explore new ones. Currently, SPAIL is engaged in collaborative projects with several high-tech companies, focusing on performance data collection, analysis, modeling, and prediction across different instruction sets and CPU microarchitectures. The projects aims to enhance the understanding of performance metrics and optimize system efficiency through advanced data analytics and modeling techniques.

As Kingsum was a senior leader in the industry for more than 20 years, SPAIL has established research collaborations with major tech giants in the industry, spanning from cloud computing to software hardware co-optimization. Students can work on research projects solving real-world problems. There are opportunities to work in school and intern at both well-established industry leaders and flourishing startups in system performance optimization.

### 对学生的要求	

1. 诚实、有激情、有好奇心，追求真实的可复现的工作
2. 追求体系结构和性能分析方向的研究和工程实践
3. Read and write in English.
4. 较好的计算机基础知识和一定的动手能力
5. 良好的工程能力，熟悉常用编程语言如Python, C/C++, Rust
6. 良好的数据分析能力, Python packages, Jupyter, Excel, (assisted by ChatGPT, Qwen, etc)

### 联系方式

你可以直接联系Kingsum: ksumchow@outlook.com

### 备注

- 课题组长期招收硕士、博士。
- 2025年普博招生已经开始，外校普博生报名时间是：2024年10月18日9:00至2024年11月18日20:00 欢迎大家联系
- 浙江大学2025年普通招考博士研究生第一次招生报名通知：http://www.grs.zju.edu.cn/yjszs/2024/1016/c28499a2975680/page.htm 
- 学院汇总简章：学院发布的简章：浙江大学软件学院2025年博士研究生招生简章：http://www.cst.zju.edu.cn/2024/1018/c36206a2976663/page.htm 
